Have you or a loved one faced a medical emergency or prepared for a serious medical procedure?
If so, you know how stressful that can be.
Psalm 41 3 promises that Jehovah will sustain us on our sick bed.
How does he do this?
Not through miraculous cures, but by lovingly providing physical, emotional, and spiritual
support.
One means of support is the hospital liaison committee arrangement.
Today, more than 16,000 brothers serve on or coordinate some 2,000 liaison committees around
the world.
How do they assist?
Our role is to help doctors and Jehovah's Witnesses to come to a consensus on how to treat
the patient without breaking God's law.
Once we visited a big hospital with 2 other brothers, and when we went in, we had 25
doctors waiting for us, and more doctors were listening through a conference call.
When we stepped into the auditorium, one of the doctors said to us, now you have entered
a lion's den.
Well, that was not an easy start.
We were able to present our hospital presentation, answered their questions, and provide some
medical articles.
These are medical articles that are carefully screened and reviewed by a panel of doctors
for accuracy, for credibility.
Those are the articles that are provided to the hospital liaison committee, brother,
to show to the doctor, to try and persuade him or her that this is a valid and effective
treatment strategy to use that can avoid blood transfusion.
Now doctors understand patients can make their own choices regarding blood, and I have
to respect the choices patients make, and they now understand that they can treat patients
now without the use of blood.
Our surgeons got incredibly fantastic about doing procedures differently, advanced technology
to do procedures that now didn't require blood transfusion.
We embraced the idea that we should treat respectfully the wishes of the Jov's witness
patients.
Serious medical situations are stressful, and decisions often need to be made quickly,
including those involving blood.
The hospital liaison committee arrangement provides comfort and help at the right time.
For the past year, I've been going through an extremely difficult trial.
There were some false starts and misdiagnosis, but we finally got diagnosed about a year
ago that I had a soft-a-geal cancer.
I know that Jehovah, in this present evil wicked system of things, won't stop his finger
and say, cancer be gone, I know that.
And I've never asked him for that, or prayed for that.
But what I have prayed for is comfort, not only myself, but for my family.
It's an answer to my prayer.
I pray for help, and they show up.
He has delivered tenfold what would be expected.
Jehovah will sustain him on his sick bed.
During his sickness, you will completely change his bed.
Sometimes there's a sick patient in bed fighting for their life, and they're surrounded by
family and friends, and the strongest person in the room is the person in the bed.
And it's this scripture being fulfilled.
Sometimes they're the one encouraging everyone else.
They're the ones telling everyone else, don't cry, it's going to be okay.
Everything's going to be fine, and that's Jehovah sustaining them on their sick bed.
Receiving the benefits from the HLC, from my times in the hospital, makes me believe
something about the HLC is that's very special.
It's all based on love.
It's based on love, first and foremost for Jehovah, and appreciation for what he's given
us, the health that we have, and to be privileged to receive that love, and to give that love,
is a privilege that I will never forget.
Each of us also plays a vital role by doing two important things.
First, by having a current completed simplified durable power of attorney, DPA card.
Second, in advance of any medical procedure, ensure your doctors will support your health
care decisions.
How grateful we are for the hospital liaison committee arrangement and the thousands of
brothers working tirelessly on our behalf.
This is truly evidence of Jehovah's loving interest and care.